## Pre-requisites

- Familiarity with Linux file navigation & package installation
- Familiarity with JSON

## Objectives

- Learn how to install and upgrade/downgrade the telemetry software component on Nexus switches
- Learn how to configure telemetry for streaming show command output using NX-API
- Learn how to collect and perform basic visualization of the data collected

## Preparing the Switches

**STOP:** You should ensure that the [NXOS Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/1e9b57ff-9e64-4c68-93e5-f0f0a8c6f22c?diagramType=Topology) lab is reserved before starting as it takes a few minutes to get started!

*The first lab in this module includes a detailed walkthrough of reserving the Sandbox if needed.*  

This lab is designed to be run from the DevBox included in the Sandbox.  You will connect to the DevBox via SSH and execute the lab through the terminal.  The SSH session can be done using the Guacamole Web Console, or directly SSHing to the server.  

> Note: Both options to connect require you are VPN'd to the Sandbox.

```bash
$ ssh developer@10.10.20.20
Warning: Permanently added '10.10.20.20' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.
root@10.10.20.20's password: C1sco12345

Last login: Wed Dec  6 15:02:55 2017 from 10.10.20.7
Updating Sample Code Repo
Already up-to-date.

Activating Python 2.7.13 Virtual Environment
.
.
```

## Installation and Upgrade

The telemetry application is packaged as a feature RPM and included with the NX-OS release. The RPM is installed by default as part of the image bootup. For incremental updates and fixes, the process is as follows:

1. Copy the RPM to the bootflash of the device using SCP/TFTP.

2. Drop down to the bash mode on the switch:

``` shell
nx-osv9000-1# feature bash
nx-osv9000-1# run bash sudo su
bash-4.2#
```

3. Upgrade to the newer version of the RPM

``` shell
bash-4.2# yum upgrade <telemetry_new_version>.rpm
```

4. If there is a need to downgrade to an earlier version, this is done as follows:

``` shell
bash-4.2# yum downgrade telemetry
```

Let's now take a look at how to perform the initial configuration for streaming telemetry on Open NX-OS based switches.
