## Configuring Open NX-OS for Streaming Telemetry

Ensure you're back at the CLI prompt of the switch.

### A Basic Configuration 

The first step in configuring telemetry is to enable the feature called `telemetry`.

Log into switch `nx-osv9000-1` and enter the following commands:

``` shell
nx-osv9000-1# configure terminal 
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
nx-osv9000-1(config)# feature telemetry 
nx-osv9000-1(config)# 
```

The telemetry specific configuration is done under the `telemetry configuration mode`. 

Now enter the command `telemetry` to go into this configuration mode.

``` shell
nx-osv9000-1(config)# 
nx-osv9000-1(config)# telemetry
nx-osv9000-1(config-telemetry)# 
```


At a high level, the the telemetry configuration entails the following:

1. Creating a set of sensors for the items we are interested in monitoring
2. Creating a set of destinations - identifying the collectors to send the telemetry data to.
3. Associating the sensors and destinations together, as a subscription. 

### Creating a Sensor

Let us build this out for collecting the system resources on the switch.

Start by configuring the sensor information, while in the telemetry configuration mode, enter the following commands on **nx-osv9000-1**.

``` shell
nx-osv9000-1(config)# telemetry
nx-osv9000-1(config-telemetry)# sensor-group 100
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-sensor)# data-source NX-API
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-sensor)# path "show system resources" 
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-sensor)# 

```


Here, we are creating a sensor group identified by the number `100`. Within this we define the data source to be `NX-API`. As noted in the introduction, the telemetry data on the devices are gleaned either through the DME (using  modeled data) or the NX-API (using show commands). While any NX-API show commands, that support JSON output can be used, for configuring the sensors, it is highly recommended to only use show commands if that telemetry data cannot be gleaned from the DME, due to processing overheads of using a show command. 

> Note: You can identify whether a particular show command supports JSON output by `piping` the output of the show command to json on the nxos command line. 

``` shell
nx-osv9000-1# show system resources | json
{"load_avg_1min": "1.50", "load_avg_5min": "1.35", "load_avg_15min": "1.12", "processes_total": "596", "processes_running": "5", "cpu_state_user": "5.05", "cpu_state_kernel": "10.11", "cpu_s
tate_idle": "84.83", "TABLE_cpu_usage": {"ROW_cpu_usage": [{"cpuid": "0", "user": "4.16", "kernel": "7.29", "idle": "88.54"}, {"cpuid": "1", "user": "7.40", "kernel": "11.11", "idle": "81.48
"}]}, "memory_usage_total": "8165260", "memory_usage_used": "5946888", "memory_usage_free": "2218372", "current_memory_status": "OK"}
nx-osv9000-1# 

```



For our first sensor, we are going to collect the data from the output of `show system resources`. Thus, the command is specified as a `path` within the sensor-group.

> A sensor group can contain more than one sensors that belong to the same data source type. This could be a collection of show commands, for example.

### Specify your Target Destination

The next step is configure the collector information. Enter the following commands into the switch.

``` shell
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-sensor)# destination-group 100
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-dest)# ip address 10.10.20.20 port 8888 protocol HTTP encoding JSON 
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-dest)# 

```

NX-OS telemetry supports sending of the sensor data either over HTTP, or [gRPC](https://grpc.io/), a high performance RPC framework from Google. While using the NX-OS telemetry feature, higher data throughput (anything that's greater than 4MB) is supported only over gRPC. The encoding format while using gRPC is GPB or gRPC protocol buffers. This will be covered in future DevNet labs.

In the configuration above, however, we are using the HTTP protocol (that supports JSON encoding).  You can think of this as basically making a HTTP POST to the destination collector. We configured a destination group - once again identified by the number `100`. Within this destination group we identified a single IP address and port.

> A destination group can contain more than one destination and destination protocol/encoding types.


Now, the sensor group(s) and destination groups(s) are associated using a `subscription`. On **nx-osv9000-1**, create a subscription identified by the number `100`.

``` shell
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-dest)# 
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-dest)# subscription 100
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-sub)# snsr-grp 100 sample-interval 10000
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-sub)# dst-grp 100
nx-osv9000-1(conf-tm-sub)# 
```

The subscription now ties the sensor group 100 to the destination group 100. The sample interval determines how often the sensor group is polled by the device in milliseconds - every 10 seconds in our configuration. 

> Setting the sample-interval to `0`, will result in the sensor being triggered only when the state of the sensors change (when using the DME) - typically UP/DOWN notifications or criteria that typically stay constant for most part, like number of BGP neighbors or received routes.

### Verify the Telemetry Configuration

View a summary of the switch's telemetry configuration by issuing the following command:

``` shell
nx-osv9000-1# show running-config telemetry 

!Command: show running-config telemetry
!Time: Mon Aug 28 16:05:25 2017

version 7.0(3)I6(1)
feature telemetry

telemetry
  destination-group 100
    ip address 10.10.20.20 port 8888 protocol HTTP encoding JSON 
  sensor-group 100
    data-source NX-API
    path "show system resources" depth 0 
  subscription 100
    dst-grp 100
    snsr-grp 100 sample-interval 10000

```
